Executive summary
Psychotic disorders are a group of illnesses that affect around 0.7% of the U.Ks population. Psychotic disorders are a significant concern in healthcare due to their impact on people who suffer from the disorders and the long-term economic costs. To combat the effects of psychotic disorders, the NHS implemented early intervention teams with the speed of intervention as a quality benchmark of the system. The reason is that the faster the intervention, the better the outcome, with the best outcomes happening if intervention occurs during the primordial stages of the disorder. However, this is challenging in most cases, as intervention occurs after symptoms manifest. 
This study looks at improving intervention through machine learning to identify people at risk of developing a psychotic disorder using the HSE questionnaire. The chosen classifiers are decision trees and random forests for their ability to handle large amounts of data, their intrinsic feature selection and, in the case of random forests and neural networks, their ability to handle non-linear problems, resist overfitting and noisy data and support vector machine for its ability to handle high dimensional spaces. 
Since psychotic disorders are uncommon, the underlying data will be imbalanced, so the classifiers will need to mitigate this and be evaluated with a focus on the prediction of the minority class. Using a dataset consisting of 10,300 records, the classifiers were optimised through feature selection, data sampling, hyperparameter tuning and probabilistic calibration, with balanced random forest performing the best, scoring 0.82 recall, precision 0.46 and 0.7 F2. Demonstrating an underlying correlation between the data and predicting a psychotic illness, though the number of false positives makes them impractical. This study uses secondary data classified as personal under the GDPR, which has already undergone anonymisation through the removal of personal data to limit the risk of disclosure and negate any harm this study could cause. 
